Rewrite & broadly expand HttpCache doc (#1071)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/http_cache.md

# HTTP cache

!!! note "Documentation reflects ezplatform-http-cache v1.0 and up"

>     This page reflects how `ezplatform-http-cache` v1.0 works, bundled with eZ Platform v2.5.9 and up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This page describes `ezplatform-http-cache` v1.0, which is bundled with eZ Platform v2.5.9 and up.
```

    To see documentation on how `ezplatform-http-cache` v0.9 works, see eZ Platform 1.13LTS HttpCache documentation.

> ## Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> eZ Platform provides out of the box highly advanced caching features needed for its own content views, taking advantage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eZ Platform provides highly advanced caching features needed for its own content views, taking advantage
```

of sophisticated techniques to make Varnish & Fastly act as _the_ view cache for the system. This and other features

> allow eZ Platform to be scaled up to serve high traffic websites & applications, which also have busy publishing activity
> by large editorial teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow eZ Platform to be scaled up to serve high traffic websites and applications.
```

> allow eZ Platform to be scaled up to serve high traffic websites and applications, which also have busy publishing activity
> by large editorial teams.

Author: From https://github.com/ezsystems/developer-documentation/pull/1071#discussion_r447577493:
```suggestion
allow eZ Platform to be scaled up to serve high traffic websites and applications.
```

> This is done via its own [ezplatform-http-cache](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache) bundle, which extends [friendsofsymfony/http-cache-bundle](https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is handled by the [ezplatform-http-cache](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache) bundle, which extends [friendsofsymfony/http-cache-bundle](https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/),
```

> This is done via its own [ezplatform-http-cache](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache) bundle, which extends [friendsofsymfony/http-cache-bundle](https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/)
> which in turn extends [Symfony HTTP cache](http://symfony.com/doc/3.4/http_cache.html).

Author: ```suggestion
This is done via its own [ezplatform-http-cache](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache) bundle, which extends [friendsofsymfony/http-cache-bundle](https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/),
a Symfony community bundle that in turn extends [Symfony HTTP cache](http://symfony.com/doc/3.4/http_cache.html).
```

> For content view responses coming from eZ Platform itself, this means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For content view responses coming from eZ Platform itself, this means:

```

- Cache is **[content-aware](#content-aware-http-cache)**, always kept up-to-date by invalidating using cache tags.
- Cache is **[context-aware](#context-aware-http-cache)**, to cache request for logged in users by varying on user _rights_.

All of this works across all the supported Reverse Proxies:
- Symfony HttpCache Proxy _(Limited to single server, and limited performance/features)_
- [Varnish](https://varnish-cache.org/)

> - [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/) _(Varnish based CDN service)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/) - Varnish-based CDN service
```

                        s_maxage: 20
```

> Similarly, to apply performance tuning to avoid crawlers affecting the setup too much, we also set up caching of generic 404s and similar error pages in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, to apply performance tuning to avoid crawlers affecting the setup too much, set up caching of generic 404s and similar error pages in the following way:
```

For Page Builder coming with eZ Platform Enterprise, Block cache by default respects `$content.ttl_cache$` and `$content.default_ttl$` settings.
However, if the given block value has a since / till date,
this will be taken into account for the TTL calculation for the block and also for the whole page.

To overload this behavior, listen to [BlockResponseEvents::BLOCK_RESPONSE](extending/extending_page/#block-render-response),
and set priority to for instance `-200` to adapt what Page Field type does by default. E.g. in order to disable cache
for the block use `$event->getResponse()->setPrivate()`.

### When to use ESI

ESI are in theory great for splitting out the different parts of a web page into separate concerns that can be freely reused as pieces by Reverse proxy.

However in practice ESI requests means every request needs to start over from scratch, and while you can tune your system to reduce this, there will always be some overhead to this.

You'll face this overhead when:
- Cache is cold on all or some of the sub requests
- With Symfony Proxy _(AppCache)_ even some overhead on warm cache (hits) on all sub requests
- In development environment

> So while recommendations here depends a lot on your system, in general we recommend trying to stay below 2 - 5 ESI

Author: I agree, could you update this suggestion for that?

### Configure eZ Platform

Configuring eZ Platform for Varnish or Fastly involves a few steps, starting configuring proxy.

#### Configuring Symfony Front Controller

In a pure Symfony install you would normally adapt Front Controller (`web/app.php`) [in order to configure Symfony to work behind a Load Balancer or a Reverse Proxy](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/deployment/proxies.html),
however in eZ Platform you can cover most use cases by setting supported environment variables using:
- `SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE`: To enable(`"1"`) or disable(`"0"`) use of Symfony HttpCache reverse proxy
    - *Must* be disabled when using Varnish or Fastly.
    - If not set, it is automatically disabled for Symfony ENV `dev` for local development needs.
- `SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES`:  String with trusted IP, several can be configured with a comma, i.e. `SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES="192.0.0.1,10.0.0.0/8"`

!!! caution "Careful when trusting remotes with trusted proxies"

>     On Platform.sh, Varnish does not have a static IP, like with [AWS LB](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/deployment/proxies.html#but-what-if-the-ip-of-my-reverse-proxy-changes-constantly).

Author: This section is not really about p.sh specifically, but about trusting dynamic IP in general, I'll update the section a bit to maybe make it more clear.

                        s_maxage: 20
```

### Setting Time-To-Live value for Page blocks

For Page Builder coming with eZ Platform Enterprise, Block cache by default respects `$content.ttl_cache$` and `$content.default_ttl$` settings.
However, if the given block value has a since / till date,
this will be taken into account for the TTL calculation for the block and also for the whole page.

To overload this behavior, listen to [BlockResponseEvents::BLOCK_RESPONSE](extending/extending_page/#block-render-response),

> and set priority to, for instance, `-200` to adapt what Page Field type does by default. E.g. in order to disable cache
> for the block use `$event->getResponse()->setPrivate()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and set priority to `-200` to adapt what Page Field Type does by default.
For example, in order to disable cache for the block, use `$event->getResponse()->setPrivate()`.
```

### When to use ESI

ESI are in theory great for splitting out the different parts of a web page into separate concerns that can be freely reused as pieces by Reverse proxy.

> However in practice ESI requests means every request needs to start over from scratch, and while you can tune your system to reduce this, there will always be some overhead to this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in practice ESI means every request needs to start over from scratch, and while you can tune your system to reduce this, it always causes additional overhead:
```

> You'll face this overhead when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Cache is cold on all or some of the sub requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When cache is cold on all or some of the sub-requests
```

- With Symfony Proxy _(AppCache)_ even some overhead on warm cache (hits) on all sub requests
- In development environment

It may differ depending on your system, but in general, we recommend to stay below 5 ESI
request per page and only use them for parts that will be the same across whole site or larger parts of it.

You should preferably *not* use ESI for parts that are effectively uncached, as it will cause your reverse proxy to
have to wait for backend and not be able to deliver cached pages directly.

> !!! note "ESI limitations with URIElement siteaccess matcher"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note "ESI limitations with the URIElement SiteAccess matcher"
```

    Note that sharing ESIs across SiteAccesses when using URI matching is not possible by design, as URI will

>     contain the siteaccess name encoded into it's path info. (see [EZP-22535](https://jira.ez.no/browse/EZP-22535) for details).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    contain the SiteAccess name encoded into its path info.
```

## Using Varnish or Fastly

As eZ Platform is built on top of Symfony, it uses standard HTTP cache headers.
By default, the Symfony reverse proxy, written in PHP, is used to handle cache. But it can be easily replaced with reverse proxies like Varnish or CDN like Fastly.

This is highly recommended as they provide far better performance and more advance features like grace handling, configurable logic via VCL and much more.

!!! note

    Use of Varnish or Fastly is a requirement for a [Clustering](clustering.md) setup.

### Recommended VCL base files

For setup to work properly with eZ, you'll need to adapt one of the provided VCL files as a basis:

- [Varnish 5+ VCL xkey example](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache/blob/1.0/docs/varnish/vcl/varnish5.vcl)

> - Fastly VCL can be found in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly` on eZ Platform Enterprise installs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fastly VCL can be found in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache-fastly/fastly` in Enterprise version
```

!!! tip

    As we extend [FOSHttpCacheBundle](https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/), you can consider adapting your VCL further according to [FOSHttpCache documentation](http://foshttpcache.readthedocs.org/en/latest/varnish-configuration.html) in order to use features supported by it.

### Configure eZ Platform

Configuring eZ Platform for Varnish or Fastly involves a few steps, starting with configuring proxy.

#### Configuring Symfony Front Controller

In a pure Symfony install you would normally adapt Front Controller (`web/app.php`) [in order to configure Symfony to work behind a Load Balancer or a Reverse Proxy](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/deployment/proxies.html),
however in eZ Platform you can cover most use cases by setting supported environment variables using:

> - `SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE`: To enable(`"1"`) or disable(`"0"`) use of Symfony HttpCache reverse proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE`: To enable (`"1"`) or disable (`"0"`) use of Symfony HttpCache reverse proxy
```

    - If not set, it is automatically disabled for Symfony ENV `dev` for local development needs.
- `SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES`:  String with trusted IP, several can be configured with a comma, i.e. `SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES="192.0.0.1,10.0.0.0/8"`

!!! caution "Careful when trusting dynamic IP using TRUST_REMOTE value or similar"

    On Platform.sh, Varnish does not have a static IP, like with [AWS LB](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/deployment/proxies.html#but-what-if-the-ip-of-my-reverse-proxy-changes-constantly).
    For this `SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES` env variable supports being set to value "TRUST_REMOTE", which effectively means:
    ```php
    Request::setTrustedProxies([$request->server->get('REMOTE_ADDR')], Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_ALL);
    ```

    When trusting remote IP like this, make sure your application is not also accessible in other ways than through
    Varnish, as it could mean you end up trusting i.e. IP of client browser instead which would be a serious security issue!

    In other words, only do this if you are certain **all** traffic will always come from the trused proxy/load-balancer,
    and there is no other way to configure it.

> _See [Examples for configuring eZ Platform](#Examples-for-configuring-eZ-Platform) for how these variables can be set._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Examples for configuring eZ Platform](#Examples-for-configuring-eZ-Platform) for how these variables can be set.
```

                purge_servers: [http://my.varnish.server:8081]
```

!!! note "Invalidating Varnish cache using tokens"

    In setups where the Varnish server IP can change (for example on platform.sh/eZ Platform Cloud),

>     you can use token-based cache invalidation via [ez_purge_acl](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache/blob/v1.0.0/docs/varnish/vcl/varnish5.vcl#L160).

Author: Why the dot inside the link?

>     you can use token-based cache invalidation via [ez_purge_acl](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-http-cache/blob/v1.0.0/docs/varnish/vcl/varnish5.vcl#L160).

Reviewer 2: It is an outside link, so on the page it will look like there is a space between the link and the full stop. This is a little workaround to prevent that.

    In such a case use a strong, secure hash and make sure to keep the token secret.

!!! enterprise "Using Fastly as HttpCache proxy"

    [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/) delivers Varnish as a CDN service and is supported with eZ Platform Enterprise. See [Fastly documentation](https://docs.fastly.com/guides/basic-concepts/how-fastlys-cdn-service-works) to read how it works.

    ##### Configuring Fastly in YML

    ``` yaml
    ezpublish:
        http_cache:
            purge_type: fastly

        system:
            # Assuming that my_siteaccess_group contains both your front-end and back-end SiteAccesses
            my_siteaccess_group:
                http_cache:
                    purge_servers: [https://api.fastly.com]
                    fastly:
                        # See below for obtaining these values
                        service_id: "ID"
                        key: "token"
    ```

    ##### Configuring Fastly using Environment variables

    *Example when using `.env` file*:

>     ```shell script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``` bash
```

##### Example for Apache + Varnish

```apacheconfig
    # mysite_com.conf

    # Force front controller (web/app.php) NOT to use Symfony's built-in reverse proxy.
    SetEnv SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE 0

    # Configure Varnish
    SetEnv HTTPCACHE_PURGE_TYPE varnish
    SetEnv HTTPCACHE_PURGE_SERVER "http://varnish:80"

    # Configure IP of your Varnish server to be trusted proxy
    # !! Replace IP with the real one used by Varnish
    SetEnv SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES "193.22.44.22"
```

##### Example for Nginx + Fastly

```nginx
# mysite_com.conf

# Force front controller (web/app.php) NOT to use Symfony's built-in reverse proxy.
fastcgi_param SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE 0;

# Configure Fastly
fastcgi_param HTTPCACHE_PURGE_TYPE fastly;
fastcgi_param HTTPCACHE_PURGE_SERVER "https://api.fastly.com";

# See above for obtaining service ID and application key/token
fastcgi_param FASTLY_SERVICE_ID "ID"
fastcgi_param FASTLY_KEY "token"
```

### Understanding Stale Cache

Stale cache, or Grace mode in Varnish, is when cache continues to be served when expired _(by means of TTL or "Soft purge")_, or when backend server is not responding.

> This has several benefits for high traffic installations to reduce load to backend. Instead of suddenly several

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This has several benefits for high traffic installations to reduce load to backend. Instead of creating several
```

> concurrent requests hitting the backend to refresh the given cache, the following happens instead:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
concurrent requests for the same page to the backend, the following happens when a page has been soft purged:
```

> - First request hitting the cache will trigger a backend lookup

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Next request hitting the cache will trigger an asynchronous lookup to a backend
```

> - If cache is still within grace period, first and subsequent requests for the content will be served from cache

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If cache is still within grace period, first and subsequent requests for the content will be served from cache, not wait for the asynchronous lookup to finish
```

- The backend lookup finishes and refreshed the cache so any subsequent requests gets fresh cache

> By default eZ Platform always "Soft Purges" content on reverse proxies where it's supported (Varnish and Fastly), with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default eZ Platform always "Soft Purges" content on reverse proxies that supports it (Varnish and Fastly), with
```

##### User Context Hash caching explained

Example of response sent to reverse proxy from `/_fos_user_context_hash` with [eZ Platform's default config](#Default-options-for-FOSHttpCacheBundle-defined-in-eZ-Platform):
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-User-Hash: <hash>
Content-Type: application/vnd.fos.user-context-hash
Cache-Control: public, max-age=600
Vary: Cookie, Authorization
```

As you can see, response is set to be cached for 10minutes. It varies on the `Cookie` header in order to be able to cache
it for the given user. For cache efficiency reasons our default VCL strips any other cookie then session cookies to make
this work.

It also varies on `Authorization` to cover any possible basic auth headers in case that is used over sessions for some requests.

!!! note "In case you experience problems with stale user hash"

    In case you notice issues with stale hash usage, before you disable this cache make sure login/logout always
    generates new session IDs and performs a full redirect in order to make sure no requests are being made using stale
    user context hashes.

!!! warning "Known limitations of the user context hash"

>     If you are using URI-based SiteAccesses matching, the default SiteAccess on the domain needs to point to the same

Reviewer 3: I honestly don't quite get what you mean here. If using URI-based matching you simply must have a `default_siteaccess` setting, right? And that one is required by kernel. Or are you talking about multi database setup? I haven't thought about that before now, but multi-database setup is indeed a challenge with URI-based matching

Author: This is about multi database, will multi repo I imply multi db as well.
Suggestions on making it more clear and readable?

Author: Header could maybe be `!!! warning "Known limitations of the user context hash with multi repository setup"`

Reviewer 3: Yes, or in the first sentence says something like "If you are using URI-based SiteAccesses matching on a multi-repo installation ( multiple databases ) ..."
Cause as I read it now, the problem is with URI-based matching, while the actually problem is with multi-repos..
If you use multi-repos and only URI-based matching ( only one domain ), user content hash won't work basically....

Author: Updated to reflect suggestion++, so marking this thread as resolved. Please have a look when time permits :)

- Cache is within grace
- Either server is not responding, or request comes without session cookie (anonymous user)

Reason for not always serving grace by default is:
1. Safe default _(even if just for anonymous , stale cache can easily confuse your team during acceptance testing)_
2. It would also mean REST API, which is used by Admin UI, would serve stales data, breaking the UI.

!!! tip "Customizing stale cache handling"

    If you want to use grace handling also for logged in users, you can adapt the provided VCL to add condition for
    opting out if request has cookie *and* path contains REST API prefix to make sure Admin UI is not negatively affected.

    If you want to disable grace, you can adapt the VCL to do hard instead of soft purges, or set grace/stale time to `0s`.

## Context-aware HTTP cache

eZ Platform allows caching request made by logged in users, this is what we refer to as (user) context aware cache.

What it means is that HttpCache is unique per user permissions (roles and limitations), meaning there are variations of
cache shared only among users that have the exact same permissions. So if user is browsing a list of children locations

> for instance, he will only see what he has access to even if the system has taken care of caching the rendering for you.

Author: Better?
```suggestion
for instance, user will only see children locations he/she has access to even if the rendering of this is served from HttpCache.
```

Cache-Control: public, max-age=600
Vary: Cookie, Authorization
```

As you can see, response is set to be cached for 10minutes. It varies on the `Cookie` header in order to be able to cache
it for the given user. For cache efficiency reasons our default VCL strips any other cookie then session cookies to make
this work.

It also varies on `Authorization` to cover any possible basic auth headers in case that is used over sessions for some requests.

!!! note "In case you experience problems with stale user hash"

    In case you notice issues with stale hash usage, before you disable this cache make sure login/logout always
    generates new session IDs and performs a full redirect in order to make sure no requests are being made using stale
    user context hashes.

!!! warning "Known limitations of the user context hash"

    If you are using URI-based SiteAccesses matching on a multi-repo installation (multiple databases). The default
    SiteAccess on the domain needs to point to the same repository (database), because `/_fos_user_context_hash` is not
    SiteAccess-aware by default (see `ezpublish.default_router.non_siteaccess_aware_routes` parameter). This in turn is

>     becasue reverse proxy does not have knowledge about SiteAccesses, and it's not passing whole url in order to be

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    because reverse proxy does not have knowledge about SiteAccesses and it's not passing the whole URL in order to be
```

    able to cache the user context hash response.

    Only known workaround would be to make it siteaccess aware, and have custom VCL logic tied to your siteaccess
    matching with Varnish/Fastly, in order to send siteaccess prefix as URI.

##### Default options for FOSHttpCacheBundle defined in eZ Platform

The following configuration is defined in eZ Platform by default for FOSHttpCacheBundle.

> You should typically not override these settings unless you know what you are doing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Typically, you should not override these settings unless you know what you are doing.
```

    instructions on how to generate a Fastly API token.
    The token needs `purge_select` and `purge_all` scope.

    #### Ensure proper Captcha behavior

>     If your installation uses Varnish and you want users to be able to configure and use Captcha in their forms, you must enable the sending of Captcha data as a response to an Ajax request.

Author: @MagdalenaZuba Thanks for the merge. 

As for the change, I would guess the same here is true for Fastly? Or even also Symfony Proxy? ...Which issues does this come from (further details on the issue).

Reviewer 2: It comes from 2.5.9 release PR: https://github.com/ezsystems/developer-documentation/pull/1083

    instructions on how to generate a Fastly API token.
    The token needs `purge_select` and `purge_all` scope.

#### Examples for configuring eZ Platform

> There are several ways to configure HttpCache, examples on configuring it via YML can be found above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> For configuring the system completely by environment variables, here are some of the most common:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you will find the most common examples for configuring the system completely by environment variables.
```

*Example when using `.env` file*:

> ```shell script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` bash
```

SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE="0"
SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES="127.0.0.1"
HTTPCACHE_PURGE_TYPE="varnish"
HTTPCACHE_PURGE_SERVER="http://varnish:80"
```

*Example for Apache with `mod_env`*:
```apacheconfig
SetEnv SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE 0
SetEnv SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES "127.0.0.1"
SetEnv HTTPCACHE_PURGE_TYPE varnish
SetEnv HTTPCACHE_PURGE_SERVER "http://varnish:80"
```

*Example for Nginx*:
```nginx
fastcgi_param SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE 0;
fastcgi_param SYMFONY_TRUSTED_PROXIES "127.0.0.1";
fastcgi_param HTTPCACHE_PURGE_TYPE varnish;
fastcgi_param HTTPCACHE_PURGE_SERVER "http://varnish:80";
```

*Example for Platform.sh*:

> You can configure environment variables via [Platform.sh variables](https://docs.platform.sh/frameworks/ez/fastly.html).

Author: Same here

```nginx
# mysite_com.conf

# Force front controller (web/app.php) NOT to use Symfony's built-in reverse proxy.
fastcgi_param SYMFONY_HTTP_CACHE 0;

# Configure Fastly
fastcgi_param HTTPCACHE_PURGE_TYPE fastly;
fastcgi_param HTTPCACHE_PURGE_SERVER "https://api.fastly.com";

# See above for obtaining service ID and application key/token
fastcgi_param FASTLY_SERVICE_ID "ID"
fastcgi_param FASTLY_KEY "token"
```

### Understanding Stale Cache

Stale cache, or Grace mode in Varnish, is when cache continues to be served when expired _(by means of TTL or "Soft purge")_, or when backend server is not responding.

This has several benefits for high traffic installations to reduce load to backend. Instead of creating several
concurrent requests for the same page to the backend, the following happens when a page has been soft purged:
- Next request hitting the cache will trigger an asynchronous lookup to a backend
- If cache is still within grace period, first and subsequent requests for the content will be served from cache, not wait for the asynchronous lookup to finish
- The backend lookup finishes and refreshed the cache so any subsequent requests gets fresh cache

> By default eZ Platform always "Soft Purges" content on reverse proxies that supports it (Varnish and Fastly), with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default eZ Platform always "Soft Purges" content on reverse proxies that support it (Varnish and Fastly), with
```

> the following logic in our out of the box VCL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the following logic in the out-of-the-box VCL:
```

- Cache is within grace
- Either server is not responding, or request comes without session cookie (anonymous user)

> Reason for not always serving grace by default is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serving grace is not always allowed by default because:
```

> 1. Safe default _(even if just for anonymous , stale cache can easily confuse your team during acceptance testing)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is a safe default. Even if just for anonymous, stale cache can easily confuse your team during acceptance testing.
```

> 2. It would also mean REST API, which is used by Admin UI, would serve stales data, breaking the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It means REST API, which is used by Admin UI, would serve stales data, breaking the UI.
```

!!! tip "Customizing stale cache handling"

    If you want to use grace handling also for logged in users, you can adapt the provided VCL to add condition for

>     opting out if request has cookie *and* path contains REST API prefix to make sure Admin UI is not negatively affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    opting out if request has cookie and path contains REST API prefix to make sure the Back Office is not negatively affected.
```

    If you want to disable grace mode, you can adapt the VCL to do hard instead of soft purges, or set grace/stale time to `0s`.

## Context-aware HTTP cache

eZ Platform allows caching request made by logged in users, this is what we refer to as (user) context aware cache.

What it means is that HttpCache is unique per user permissions (roles and limitations), meaning there are variations of

> cache shared only among users that have the exact same permissions. So if user is browsing a list of children locations,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
cache shared only among users that have the exact same permissions. So if a user is browsing a list of for instance children locations,
```

> for instance, user will only see children locations he/she has access to even if the rendering of this is served from HttpCache.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the user will only see children locations he/she has access to even if the rendering of this is served from HttpCache.
```

This is accomplished by varying on a header called `X-User-Hash`, which the system populates on the request for you.

> The logic for this _([see below](#Request-life-cycle-explained))_ is accomplished in our provided VCL for Varnish and Fastly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logic for this ([see Request life cycle](#request-life-cycle)) is accomplished in provided VCL for Varnish and Fastly.
```

Note: A similar but internal logic is done in the provided enhanced Symfony Proxy _(AppCache)_.

Originally a eZ Publish 5.x feature, this was contributed to FOSHttpCache (1.x) and today eZ Platform builds upon that.

!!! tip "Prepare your custom controllers for v3"

    In 2.5LTS (FOSHTTPCache 1.x) the system varies on this hash for **all** responses, not just built in eZ controllers (Content View, Page, ...).

    However:

>     1. This becomes configurable in v3 (FOSHTTPCache 2.x), and we consider to disable it by default for better cache efficiency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. This becomes configurable in v3 (FOSHTTPCache 2.x), and we consider disabling it by default for better cache efficiency
```

>     2. The header name changes to FOSHttpCache default one: `X-User-Context-Hash`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. The header name changes to the FOSHttpCache default: `X-User-Context-Hash`
```

    So in any custom controller you have that relies on eZ user permissions, i.e. rendering eZ content, best practice is to explicitly vary:
    ```php
        // Inside a controller action, should be adapted to `X-User-Context-Hash` when upgrading to v3
        $response->setVary('X-User-Hash');
    ```

> #### Request life-cycle explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request life-cycle
```

To expand on steps covered in [FOSHttpCacheBundle documentation on how user context feature works](https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/features/user-context.html#how-it-works):

> 1. A client _(browser)_ requests URI `/foo`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A client (browser) requests URI `/foo`.
```

2. The caching proxy receives the request and holds it. It first sends a hash request to the applications's context hash route: `/_fos_user_context_hash`.

> 3. The application receives the hash request. An event subscriber _(`UserContextSubscriber`)_ aborts the request immediately after the Symfony firewall was applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The application receives the hash request. An event subscriber (`UserContextSubscriber`) aborts the request immediately after the Symfony firewall is applied.
```

>    The application calculates the hash _(`HashGenerator`)_ and then sends a response with the hash in a custom header _(`X-User-Hash` in eZ Platform)_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The application calculates the hash (`HashGenerator`) and then sends a response with the hash in a custom header (`X-User-Hash` in eZ Platform).
```

4. The caching proxy receives the hash response, copies the hash header to the client’s original request for `/foo` and restarts the modified original request.
5. If the response to `/foo` should differ per user context, the application sets a `Vary: X-User-Hash` header, which will make Proxy store the variations of this cache varying on the hash value.

The next time a request comes in from the same user, application lookup for the hash (step 3) won't happen anymore as the
hash lookup itself is cached by the cache proxy itself.

> ##### User Context Hash caching explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### User Context Hash caching
```

> Example of response sent to reverse proxy from `/_fos_user_context_hash` with [eZ Platform's default config](#Default-options-for-FOSHttpCacheBundle-defined-in-eZ-Platform):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of response sent to reverse proxy from `/_fos_user_context_hash` with [eZ Platform's default config](#default-options-for-foshttpcachebundle-defined-in-ez-Platform):
```

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-User-Hash: <hash>
Content-Type: application/vnd.fos.user-context-hash
Cache-Control: public, max-age=600
Vary: Cookie, Authorization
```

As you can see, response is set to be cached for 10minutes. It varies on the `Cookie` header in order to be able to cache
it for the given user. For cache efficiency reasons our default VCL strips any other cookie then session cookies to make
this work.

It also varies on `Authorization` to cover any possible basic auth headers in case that is used over sessions for some requests.

> !!! note "In case you experience problems with stale user hash"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note "Problems with stale user hash"
```

>     In case you notice issues with stale hash usage, before you disable this cache make sure login/logout always

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you notice issues with stale hash usage, before you disable this cache make sure login/logout always
```

    generates new session IDs and performs a full redirect in order to make sure no requests are being made using stale
    user context hashes.

!!! warning "Known limitations of the user context hash"

>     If you are using URI-based SiteAccesses matching on a multi-repo installation (multiple databases). The default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you are using URI-based SiteAccesses matching on a multi-repository installation (multiple databases). The default
```

    $response->setVary('Cookie');
```

**2. Ajax/JS lookup to “uncached” custom Symfony Controller(s)**
- Does not consume memory in Varnish.
- Can optionally be cached with custom logic: Symfony Cache on server side and/or with client side caching techniques.
- Should be done as ajax/JS lookup to avoid the uncached request slowing down the whole delivery of Vanish if it’s done as ESI.
- Somewhat more effort depending on project requirements _(traffic load, …)_.

**3. Custom vary by logic, i.e. “X-User-Preference-Hash” inspired by X-User-Hash**
- Allows for fine-grained caching as you can explicitly vary on this in only the places that needs it.
- More effort _(controller + VCL logic + adapt own code)_, see below for how.

!!! tip "Dealing with Paywall use cases"

    If you need to handle a paywall on a per item basis, then you'll need to go a bit further by for instance doing a
    lookup to backend for each and every url where this is relevant.

    FOSHTTPCache documentation has an [example for how Paywall Authorization can be done](https://foshttpcache.readthedocs.io/en/1.4/user-context.html#alternative-for-paywalls-authorization-request).

> ##### Does and don'ts when making custom vary by logic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Dos and don'ts when making custom vary by logic
```

these cases as described above when needed.
```yaml
parameters:
    # Warning, setting this means you risk losing tag information, risking stale cache. Here set below 8k:
    ezplatform.http_cache.tags.header_max_length: 7900
    # In order to reduce risk of stale cache issues, you should set a lower TTL here then globally (here set as 2h)
    ezplatform.http_cache.tags.header_reduced_ttl: 7200
```

### Response tagging done with Content View

For Content views response tagging is done for you, and cache system will output headers like the following:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: public, max-age=86400
xkey: ez-all c1 ct1 l2 pl1 p1 p2
```

If the given content have several locations you'll see several `l<location-id>` and `p<location-id>` tags in the response.

!!! note "How response tagging for ContentView is done internally"

    In `ezplatform-http-cache` there is a dedicated response listener `HttpCacheResponseSubscriber` that checks if:
    - Response has attribute `view`
    - View implements `eZ\Publish\Core\MVC\Symfony\View\CachableView`
    - Cache is not disabled on the individual view

>     If that checks out Response will be adapted with the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If that checks out, the Response will be adapted with the following:
```

    - `ResponseCacheConfigurator` will apply site access settings for enabled/disabled cache and default TTL
    - `DispatcherTagger` will dispatch the built in ResponseTaggers which will generate the tags as described above.

    Further reading can be found in ezplatform-http-cache's `docs/response_taggers.md`.

### Response tagging in Controllers

For tagging needs in controllers, there are several options, here presented in recommended order:

1. **Reusing DispatcherTagger to get it to pick correct tags for you**

_Example for tagging everything needed for Content:_
``` php
/** @var \EzSystems\PlatformHttpCacheBundle\ResponseTagger\Delegator\DispatcherTagger $responseTagger */

// If you have a View object you can simply call:
$responseTagger->tag($view);

// Or if you have Content / Location object only, you can instead provide content info and location:
$responseTagger->tag($contentInfo);
$responseTagger->tag($location);
```

2. **Use low level ContentTagInterface API for content related tags**

``` php
/** @var \EzSystems\PlatformHttpCacheBundle\Handler\ContentTagInterface $handler */

> // Specifically $handler would be instance of EzSystems\PlatformHttpCacheBundle\Handler\TagHandler

Reviewer 5: I find no service defined for this.  Is it `ezplatform.http_cache.fos_tag_handler.xkey`?  Should the service to inject be mentioned?

Author: Well, maybe we can setup autowire alias for the interface in order to simplify this?
WDYT @alongosz ?

Reviewer 6: > I find no service defined for this [For autowire]. Is it `ezplatform.http_cache.fos_tag_handler.xkey`? Should the service to inject be mentioned?

> True.
> 
> But maybe we can setup autowire alias for the interface in order to simplify this?

Yes. AFAICS `EzSystems\PlatformHttpCacheBundle\Handler\ContentTagInterface` can indeed safely alias `ezplatform.http_cache.fos_tag_handler.xkey` for autowiring.

Author: For our stuff `DispatcherTagger ` and `ContentTagInterface` => work fore me 👍 

But we have same topic here also for `3. **Manually add tags yourself using FOS TagHandler**` below, where the class has changed from FosHttpCache 1.x (`TagHandler`) to 2.x (`ResponseTagger`).

So @alongosz  fort that example maybe we should aim for mentioning service name on 2.5 doc (here), and change to autowire alias on 3.x?

Author: Marking this as resolved as this PR has now been updated to reflect what is _now_ proposed in PR above.

     ) {
         set req.http.x-user-hash = resp.http.x-user-hash;
+        set req.http.x-user-preference-hash = resp.http.x-user-preference-hash;

         return (restart);
     }

     // If we get here, this is a real response that gets sent to the client.

+    // Remove the vary on user preference hash, no need to expose this publicly.
+    if (resp.http.Vary ~ "X-User-Preference-Hash") {
+        set resp.http.Vary = regsub(resp.http.Vary, "(?i),? *X-User-Preference-Hash *", "");
+        set resp.http.Vary = regsub(resp.http.Vary, "^, *", "");
+    }
+
     // Remove the vary on user context hash, this is nothing public. Keep all
     // other vary headers.
     if (resp.http.Vary ~ "X-User-Hash") {
```

3. Add `Vary` in your custom controller or content view controller:

```php
    $response->setVary('X-User-Preference-Hash');

    // If you _also_ need to very on eZ permissions, instead use:
    //$response->setVary(['X-User-Hash', 'X-User-Preference-Hash']);
```

## Content-aware HTTP cache

HttpCache in eZ Platform is "aware" about which content or entity it is connected to, this awareness is accomplished

> by means of "cache tagging". This is supported across all supported reverse proxies.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
by means of "cache tagging". All supported reverse proxies are content-aware.
```

    user_context:
        enabled: true

>         # User context hash lookup is cached for 10min, to avoid a extra lookup for every request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # User context hash lookup is cached for 10min, to avoid an extra lookup for every request
```

        hash_cache_ttl: 600
        user_hash_header: X-User-Hash
```

#### How to Personalize Responses

Here are some generic recommendations on how to approach personalized content with eZ Platform / Symfony:

**1. ESI + Vary by Cookie**
- As default VCL strips everything but session cookie this means this will effectively be cached "per user".

>    - _TIP: If you are on single server setup with neither Varnish nor Fastly, you can do the same cookie logic on the Web server instead._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If you are on single server setup with neither Varnish nor Fastly, you can do the same cookie logic on the Web server instead.
```

- Low effort, and can be good enough for 1 fragment that are reused across whole site, for instance in header to show user name.

Example:
```php
    // Inside a custom controller action, or even a Content View controller
    $response->setVary('Cookie');
```

> **2. Ajax/JS lookup to “uncached” custom Symfony Controller(s)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2\. Ajax/JS lookup to "uncached" custom Symfony Controller(s)

```

- Does not consume memory in Varnish.
- Can optionally be cached with custom logic: Symfony Cache on server side and/or with client side caching techniques.
- Should be done as ajax/JS lookup to avoid the uncached request slowing down the whole delivery of Vanish if it’s done as ESI.
- Somewhat more effort depending on project requirements _(traffic load, …)_.

**3. Custom vary by logic, i.e. “X-User-Preference-Hash” inspired by X-User-Hash**
- Allows for fine-grained caching as you can explicitly vary on this in only the places that needs it.
- More effort _(controller + VCL logic + adapt own code)_, see below for how.

!!! tip "Dealing with Paywall use cases"

    If you need to handle a paywall on a per item basis, then you'll need to go a bit further by for instance doing a
    lookup to backend for each and every url where this is relevant.

    FOSHTTPCache documentation has an [example for how Paywall Authorization can be done](https://foshttpcache.readthedocs.io/en/1.4/user-context.html#alternative-for-paywalls-authorization-request).

> ##### Dos and don'ts when making custom vary by logic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Dos and don'ts when custom vary by logic
```

Refer to [FOSHttpCacheBundle documentation on how user context hashes are generated](https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/features/user-context.html#generating-hashes).

eZ Platform implements a custom context provider in order to make user context hash reflect the current User's permissions

> and Limitations, this is needed given eZ's more complex permission model compared to Symfony's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and Limitations, this is needed given eZ Platform's more complex permission model compared to Symfony's.
```

     ) {
         return (synth(400, "Bad Request"));
@@ -263,12 +264,19 @@ sub vcl_deliver {
         && resp.http.content-type ~ "application/vnd.fos.user-context-hash"
     ) {
         set req.http.x-user-hash = resp.http.x-user-hash;
+        set req.http.x-user-preference-hash = resp.http.x-user-preference-hash;

         return (restart);
     }

     // If we get here, this is a real response that gets sent to the client.

+    // Remove the vary on user preference hash, no need to expose this publicly.
+    if (resp.http.Vary ~ "X-User-Preference-Hash") {
+        set resp.http.Vary = regsub(resp.http.Vary, "(?i),? *X-User-Preference-Hash *", "");
+        set resp.http.Vary = regsub(resp.http.Vary, "^, *", "");
+    }
+
     // Remove the vary on user context hash, this is nothing public. Keep all
     // other vary headers.
     if (resp.http.Vary ~ "X-User-Hash") {
```

3. Add `Vary` in your custom controller or content view controller:

```php
    $response->setVary('X-User-Preference-Hash');

    // If you _also_ need to very on eZ permissions, instead use:
    //$response->setVary(['X-User-Hash', 'X-User-Preference-Hash']);
```

## Content-aware HTTP cache

> HttpCache in eZ Platform is "aware" about which content or entity it is connected to, this awareness is accomplished

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP cache in eZ Platform is "aware" of which content or entity it is connected to, this awareness is accomplished
```

    For security reasons this header, and other internal cache headers, are stripped from output in production for security
    reasons, by the reverse proxy _(in VCL for Varnish and Fastly)_.

### Understanding Cache tags

Understanding tags is the key to making the most of `ezplatform-http-cache`:

- Tags form a secondary set of keys assigned to every cache item, on top of the "primary key" which is the URI
- Like an index in a database, a tag is typically used for anything relevant, that represents the given cache item
- Tags are used for cache invalidation

As a practical example, system will tag every article response, and when the article Content Type is updated,
it will tell Varnish that all articles should be considered stale and be updated in the background
when someone requests them.

**Current content tags** _(and when the system purges on them)_:

- Content: `c<content-id>` - Purged on all smaller or larger changes to Content _(including it's meta data, fields and locations).
- Content Type: `ct<content-type-id>` - Used when the Content Type changes, affecting Content of its type.
- Location: `l<location-id>` - Used for clearing all cache relevant for a given Location.

> - Parent Location: `pl<[parent-]location-id>` - Used for clearing all children of a location (`pl<location-id>`), or all siblings (`pl<parent-location-id>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Parent Location: `pl<[parent-]location-id>` - Used for clearing all children of a Location (`pl<location-id>`), or all siblings (`pl<parent-location-id>`).
```

- Path: `p<location-id>` - For operations that change the tree itself, like move, remove, etc.
- Relation: `r<content-id>` - Only purged on when content updates are severe enough to also affect reverse relations.

> - Relation location: `rl<location-id>` - Same as relation, but by location id.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Relation location: `rl<location-id>` - Same as relation, but by Location ID.
```

!!! note "Automatically repository prefixing of cache tags"

>     As eZ Platform support multi repository _(aka multi database)_ setups, who can have overlapping id's. it's shared

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    As eZ Platform support multi repository _(aka multi database)_ setups that can have overlapping ID's. It's shared
```

>     As eZ Platform support multi repository _(aka multi database)_ setups, who can have overlapping id's. it's shared

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As eZ Platform support multi repository (multi database) setups that can have overlapping ID's. It's shared
```

>     http cache sytems needs to distinguesh tags relevant to the different content reposioties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    HTTP cache systems need to distinguish tags relevant to the different content repositories.
```

    This is why in multi repository setup you'll see cache tags such as `1p2`. Where `1` represents the index among
    configured repositories, meaning the second repository in the system.

    Tags are _not_ prefixed for default repository _(index "0")_.

#### Troubleshooting - Cache header too long errors

> In case of complex Content, for instance Landing Pages with many blocks, or RichText with a lot of embeds/links, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of complex content, for instance Landing Pages with many blocks, or RichText with a lot of embeds/links, you
```

> might get into trouble with too long cache header on responses. Because of this, necessary cache entries may not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can encounter problems with too long cache header on responses. Because of this, necessary cache entries may not be
```

Here are some options on how to solve this issue:

**A. Configure to allow larger header:**

*Varnish* config:
- [http_resp_hdr_len](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/6.0/reference/varnishd.html#http-resp-hdr-len) (default 8k, change to i.e. 32k)
- [http_max_hdr](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/6.0/reference/varnishd.html#http-max-hdr) (default 64, change to i.e. 128)
- [http_resp_size](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/6.0/reference/varnishd.html#http-resp-size) (default 23k, change to i.e. 96k)
- [workspace_backend](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/6.0/reference/varnishd.html#workspace-backend) (default 64k, change to i.e. 128k)
- Also to see these headers in the `varnishlog`, adapt [vsl_reclen](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/6.0/reference/varnishd.html#vsl-reclen)

*Nginx* has a default limit of 4k/8k when buffering responses:
- For [PHP-FPM](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.fpm.php) setup using proxy module, configure [proxy_buffer_size](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_buffer_size)
- For FastCGI setup using fastcgi module, configure [fastcgi_buffer_size](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_fastcgi_module.html#fastcgi_buffer_size)

> *Fastly* has a `Surrogate-Key` header limit of *16kb*, this can *not* be changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Fastly* has a `Surrogate-Key` header limit of *16 kB*, this can *not* be changed.
```

> *Apache* has a [hard](https://github.com/apache/httpd/blob/5f32ea94af5f1e7ea68d6fca58f0ac2478cc18c5/server/util_script.c#L495) [coded](https://github.com/apache/httpd/blob/7e2d26eac309b2d79e467ef586526c10e0f226f8/include/httpd.h#L299-L303) limit of 8kb, so if you face this issue consider using nginx instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Apache* has a [hard](https://github.com/apache/httpd/blob/5f32ea94af5f1e7ea68d6fca58f0ac2478cc18c5/server/util_script.c#L495) [coded](https://github.com/apache/httpd/blob/7e2d26eac309b2d79e467ef586526c10e0f226f8/include/httpd.h#L299-L303) limit of 8 kB, so if you face this issue consider using Nginx instead.
```

**B. Limit tags header output by system:**

> (1) For inline rendering just displaying the content name, image attribute, and/or link, then it would be enough to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1\. For inline rendering just displaying the content name, image attribute, and/or link, then it would be enough to:
```

- Look into how many inline _(non ESI)_ render calls for content rendering you are doing, and see if you can organize it differently.

> - Consider to inline views not uses other places in template and [tag response in Twig](#Response-tagging-in-Twig) with "relation" tags.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what that means "inline views not uses other places"

Author: Maybe more like this?

```suggestion
    - For example: Consider to inline the views not used other places in the given template and [tag response in Twig](#Response-tagging-in-Twig) with "relation" tags.
```

    - Optionally: Set reduced cache TTL for the given view in order to reduce risk of stale cache on subtree operations affecting the inlined content.

> (2) If that is not an option, you can opt-in to set a max length parameter _(in bytes)_ and corresponding ttl _(in seconds)_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2\. If that is not an option, you can opt-in to set a max length parameter _(in bytes)_ and corresponding ttl _(in seconds)_
```

for cases when the limit is reached. The system will log a warning for cases where the limit is reached so you can optimize

> these cases as described above when needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
these cases as described above when needed.

```

```yaml
parameters:
    # Warning, setting this means you risk losing tag information, risking stale cache. Here set below 8k:
    ezplatform.http_cache.tags.header_max_length: 7900
    # In order to reduce risk of stale cache issues, you should set a lower TTL here then globally (here set as 2h)
    ezplatform.http_cache.tags.header_reduced_ttl: 7200
```

### Response tagging done with Content View

For Content views response tagging is done for you, and cache system will output headers like the following:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: public, max-age=86400
xkey: ez-all c1 ct1 l2 pl1 p1 p2
```

> If the given content have several locations you'll see several `l<location-id>` and `p<location-id>` tags in the response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the given content have several Locations you'll see several `l<location-id>` and `p<location-id>` tags in the response.
```

!!! note "How response tagging for ContentView is done internally"

    In `ezplatform-http-cache` there is a dedicated response listener `HttpCacheResponseSubscriber` that checks if:
    - Response has attribute `view`
    - View implements `eZ\Publish\Core\MVC\Symfony\View\CachableView`
    - Cache is not disabled on the individual view

>     If that checks out, the Response will be adapted with the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If that checks out, the response will be adapted with the following:
```

    - `ResponseCacheConfigurator` will apply site access settings for enabled/disabled cache and default TTL
    - `DispatcherTagger` will dispatch the built in ResponseTaggers which will generate the tags as described above.

>     Further reading can be found in ezplatform-http-cache's `docs/response_taggers.md`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Further information can be found in ezplatform-http-cache's `docs/response_taggers.md`.
```

### Response tagging in Controllers

For tagging needs in controllers, there are several options, here presented in recommended order:

> 1. **Reusing DispatcherTagger to get it to pick correct tags for you**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1\. **Reusing DispatcherTagger to get it to pick correct tags for you**
```

_Examples for tagging everything needed for Content using autowirable `ResponseTagger` interface:_
``` php
/** @var \EzSystems\PlatformHttpCacheBundle\ResponseTagger\ResponseTagger $responseTagger */

// If you have a View object you can simply call:
$responseTagger->tag($view);

// Or if you have Content / Location object only, you can instead provide content info and location:
$responseTagger->tag($contentInfo);
$responseTagger->tag($location);
```

> 2. **Use ContentTagInterface API for content related tags**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2\. **Use ContentTagInterface API for content related tags**
```

> _Examples for adding specific content tags using autowireable `ContentTagInterface`:_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Examples for adding specific content tags using autowireable `ContentTagInterface`:_

```

``` php
/** @var \EzSystems\PlatformHttpCacheBundle\Handler\ContentTagInterface $tagHandler */

// Example for tagging everything needed for Content:
$tagHandler->addContentTags([$content->id]);
$tagHandler->addLocationTags([$location->id]);
$tagHandler->addParentLocationTags([$location->parentLocationId]);
$tagHandler->addPathTags($location->path);
$tagHandler->addContentTypeTags([$content->getContentType()->id]);

// Example when using ESI as also shown below using FOS tag handler (there is also a method for relation locations):
$tagHandler->addRelationTags([33, 44]);
```

> 3. **Manually add tags yourself using low level FOS TagHandler**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3\. **Manually add tags yourself using low level FOS TagHandler**
```

In PHP, FOSHttpCache exposes the `fos_http_cache.handler.tag_handler` service which enables you to add tags to a response.

> _Example for tagging minimal tags for when id 33 and 34 will be rendered in ESI, but parent response needs these tags to get refresh if they are deleted:_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Example for tagging minimal tags for when ID 33 and 34 will be rendered in ESI, but parent response needs these tags to get refresh if they are deleted:_

```

*Nginx* has a default limit of 4k/8k when buffering responses:
- For [PHP-FPM](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.fpm.php) setup using proxy module, configure [proxy_buffer_size](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_buffer_size)
- For FastCGI setup using fastcgi module, configure [fastcgi_buffer_size](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_fastcgi_module.html#fastcgi_buffer_size)

*Fastly* has a `Surrogate-Key` header limit of *16 kB*, this can *not* be changed.

*Apache* has a [hard](https://github.com/apache/httpd/blob/5f32ea94af5f1e7ea68d6fca58f0ac2478cc18c5/server/util_script.c#L495) [coded](https://github.com/apache/httpd/blob/7e2d26eac309b2d79e467ef586526c10e0f226f8/include/httpd.h#L299-L303) limit of 8 kB, so if you face this issue consider using Nginx instead.

**B. Limit tags header output by system:**

1\. For inline rendering just displaying the content name, image attribute, and/or link, then it would be enough to:
- Look into how many inline _(non ESI)_ render calls for content rendering you are doing, and see if you can organize it differently.

> - Consider to inline views not uses other places in template and [tag response in Twig](#Response-tagging-in-Twig) with "relation" tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consider inlining the views not used elsewhere in the given template and [tagging response in Twig](#Response-tagging-in-Twig) with "relation" tags.
```

    Be aware that the service name and type hint will change once we move to FOSHttpCache 2.x, so in this case
    you can alternatively consider adding a tag in Twig template or using `X-Location-Id` for the time being.

4. **Use deprecated `X-Location-Id` header**

For custom or eZ controllers _(e.g. REST)_ still using `X-Location-Id`, `XLocationIdResponseSubscriber` handles translating

> this header to tags for you. It supports singular and comma separated location id value(s):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this header to tags for you. It supports singular and comma separated Location ID value(s):
```

```php
/** @var \Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response $response */
$response->headers->set('X-Location-Id', 123);

// Alternatively using several location id values
$response->headers->set('X-Location-Id', '123,212,42');
```

!!! caution "X-Location-Id use is deprecated"

    `X-Location-Id` is deprecated and will be removed in future version. For rendering content it is advised to refactor
    to use Content View, if not applicable `ContentTagInterface` or lastly manually output tags.

### Response tagging in Templates

> 1. `ez_http_tag_location()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1\. `ez_http_tag_location()`
```

> For full content tagging when inline rendering, the following can be used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For full content tagging when inline rendering, the following can be used:

```

``` html+twig
{{ ez_http_tag_location(location) }}
```

> 2. `ez_http_tag_relation_ids()` or `ez_http_tag_relation_location_ids()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2\. `ez_http_tag_relation_ids()` or `ez_http_tag_relation_location_ids()`
```

> When either wanting to reduce the amount of tags, or the inline content is rendered using ESI a minimum set of tags can be set:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When either wanting to reduce the amount of tags, or the inline content is rendered using ESI a minimum set of tags can be set:

```

``` html+twig
{{ ez_http_tag_relation_ids(content.id) }}

{# Or using array for several values #}
{{ ez_http_tag_relation_ids([field1.value.destinationContentId, field2.value.destinationContentId]) }}
```

> 3. `{{ fos_httpcache_tag(['r33', 'r44']) }}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3\. `{{ fos_httpcache_tag(['r33', 'r44']) }}`
```

> As a last resort you can also use function from FOS which lets you set low level tags directly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a last resort you can also use function from FOS which lets you set low level tags directly:

```

``` html+twig
{{ fos_httpcache_tag('r33') }}

{# Or using array for several values #}
{{ fos_httpcache_tag(['r33', 'r44']) }}
```

> See [Tagging from Twig Templates](http://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/features/tagging.html#tagging-from-twig-templates) in FOSHttpCacheBundle doc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [Tagging from Twig Templates](http://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/1.3/features/tagging.html#tagging-from-twig-templates) in FOSHttpCacheBundle documentation.
```

{
    return [
        // The tree itself being moved (all children will have this tag)
        ContentTagInterface::PATH_PREFIX            . $signal->locationId,
        // old parent
        ContentTagInterface::LOCATION_PREFIX        . $signal->oldParentLocationId,
        // old siblings
        ContentTagInterface::PARENT_LOCATION_PREFIX . $signal->oldParentLocationId,
        // new parent
        ContentTagInterface::LOCATION_PREFIX        . $signal->newParentLocationId,
        // new siblings
        ContentTagInterface::PARENT_LOCATION_PREFIX . $signal->newParentLocationId,
    ];
}
```

All Slots can be found in `ezplatform-http-cache/src/SignalSlot`.

#### Custom purging from code

While the system purges tags whenever API is used to change data, there are times you might have the need to purge directly from code.

> For that you can use the built in purge client when you need to do this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For that you can use the built in purge client:

```

> For that you can use the built in purge client when you need to do this from code:

Author: ```suggestion
For that you can use the built in purge client when you need to do this:
```

```php
/** @var \EzSystems\PlatformHttpCacheBundle\PurgeClient\PurgeClientInterface $purgeClient */

> // Example for purging by location id:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Example for purging by Location ID:
```

$purgeClient->purge([ContentTagInterface::LOCATION_PREFIX . $location->id]);

// Example for purging all cache for instance for full re-deploy cases , usually this will trigger a expiry (soft purge):
$purgeClient->purgeAll();
```

#### Purging from command line

> Example for purging by location and by content id:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example for purging by Location and by Content ID:

```

```bash
bin/console fos:httpcache:invalidate:tag l44 c33
```

> Example for purging by all cache:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example for purging by all cache:

```

```bash
bin/console fos:httpcache:invalidate:tag ez-all
```

!!! tip "Purge is done on current repository"

    Just like when purging from code, tags you purge on will be prefixed for you to match the currently configured

>     siteaccess. So make sure to specify siteaccess argument when using this command in combination with multi repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SiteAccess. So make sure to specify SiteAccess argument when using this command in combination with multi repository
```
